1. UI & Functionality Breakdown
The interface consists of a centered, card-based login module designed with clear
visual hierarchies and a minimalist layout (p. 1).

Visual and Input Elements
●​ Brand Identifier / Logo: Positioned at the top center of the card (p. 1). Displays
the official Swadhaar FinAccess sun icon and typography to establish brand
authenticity (p. 1).
●​ Header Section:
○​ Title: Large bold text displaying "Sign in" (p. 1).
○​ Subtitle: Explanatory text reading "Welcome back to Swadhaar Admin
Panel" to anchor the user context (p. 1).
●​ Username Input Field:

○​ Label: Static text reading "Username" positioned directly above the input
box (p. 1).
○​ Placeholder Text: Contextual hint reading "Enter username" inside a
border-radius rectangle box (p. 1).
●​ Password Input Field:
○​ Label: Static text reading "Password" positioned directly above the input
box (p. 1).
○​ Placeholder Text: Contextual hint reading "Enter Password" (p. 1).
Security masking must apply to any value entered here.
●​ Remember Me Selection: A standard, unchecked square checkbox paired with
the label "Remember Me" (p. 1).
●​ Sign In Trigger: A prominent, full-width dark navy blue button containing centered
white text labeled "Sign In" (p. 1).
●​
●​

LinkedIn India

●​

Underlying Logic & Edge-Case Rules
●​ Field Validation Rules:
○​ Both fields are required parameters. Pressing "Sign In" with empty inputs
must trigger localized inline validation messages.
○​ Input sanitization must strip hazardous character sequences to block
cross-site scripting (XSS) or SQL injection payloads.
●​ Remember Me Behavior: Checking this element saves a persistent, encrypted
session token in local browser cookies. If unselected, session contexts expire
immediately upon closing the active browser tab or window.
●​ Authentication & Security Boundaries:
○​ Transfers input payloads exclusively over encrypted HTTPS pathways.
○​ Implements an account lockout policy if five consecutive invalid credential
strings are entered.

2. Step-by-Step User Guide
Goal
Gain access to internal management dashboards on the Swadhaar Admin Panel (p. 1).

Steps
1.​ Open the Admin URL: Launch an approved, secure web browser and type the
target web address assigned for the Swadhaar Admin Panel.
2.​ Input Username: Click on the box below the "Username" label (p. 1). Type your
assigned alphanumeric platform username (p. 1).
3.​ Input Password: Click on the box below the "Password" label (p. 1). Type your
secure personal account password (p. 1).
4.​ Set Session Persistence (Optional): If operating from an authorized, secure
individual terminal, click the square checkbox next to "Remember Me" to bypass
manual login steps during future visits (p. 1).
5.​ Submit Credentials: Click the dark navy "Sign In" action button at the bottom of
the card (p. 1).
6.​ Post-Authentication Action: Upon server validation, you will automatically redirect
to the primary admin system dashboard.

3. Functional Test Case Suite
Scenario
Test ID

Description

Input Steps

Expected System Outcome

TC_001

Valid credentials

Enter correct username and

System authorizes access;

routing

password. Click "Sign In" (p. 1).

routes user to admin main
dashboard.

TC_002

Missing fields

Leave fields empty. Click "Sign

System blocks submission;

verification

In" (p. 1).

throws "Field is required"
errors.

TC_003

Invalid password

Input valid username + wrong

Access denied message

security

password. Click "Sign In" (p. 1).

displayed: "Invalid username or
password".

TC_004

TC_005

Remember Me

Check "Remember Me",

Login screen is bypassed;

functional check

authenticate, close browser,

active session dashboard

return to URL (p. 1).

opens directly.

Input character

Enter alphanumeric characters

Plaintext characters mask

masking

inside the Password field (p. 1).

immediately into secure bullet
points (••••).

4. Gherkin Feature Scenarios
gherkin
Feature: Swadhaar Admin Panel Authentication
Background:
Given the user navigates to the Swadhaar Admin Panel login page
Scenario: Successful authorization with valid credentials
When the user enters a valid username "admin_user"
And the user enters a valid password "P@ssword123"
And the user clicks the "Sign In" button
Then the system should authorize the account session
And redirect the browser to the main administration dashboard
Scenario: Authentication rejection due to empty inputs
When the user leaves the "Username" and "Password" fields blank
And the user clicks the "Sign In" button
Then the system should prevent submission validation

And display inline errors stating "This field is required" under both inputs
Scenario: Persistent login validation via Remember Me
When the user enters a valid username "admin_user"
And the user enters a valid password "P@ssword123"
And the user selects the "Remember Me" checkbox
And the user clicks the "Sign In" button
Then the system should log the user in successfully
When the user closes and reopens the browser window to the login link
Then the page should automatically log in and bypass the sign-in screen

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Left Sidebar Navigation Panel
●​ Logo Brand Area: Displays the platform brand logo at the top left corner.
●​ Navigation Links: List of structural system modules:
○​ Dashboard: Current active page highlighted with a light grey background
treatment.
○​ User Management: Link to access user and cohort creation tools.
○​ Role Management: Configures security authorization matrices.
○​ Content Library & Course Management: Infrastructure tools for modules.
○​ Notification Management: Broadcast setup layout.
●​ Metabase Analytics: A dedicated dark blue block menu button. The green "D"
circle badge highlights this option.
●​ Profile Option: Renders the user indicator profile button ("Ankur") at the bottom of
the sidebar list.
●​ Log Out: Link to terminate the active authentication session.
2. Top Header & Welcome Section

●​ Dashboard Title: Labeled Dashboard with the subtext "Overview of your
educational platform and key metrics."
●​ Welcome Message: Personalized hero header text string stating "Welcome back,
Ankur!

👋".

3. Quick Actions Grid
●​ Section Heading: "Quick Actions" accompanied by subtext "Common links to
help you get things done faster".
●​ Interactive Cards: Four white action items with line icons providing fast
redirection shortcuts:
○​ Create Course: Shortcut to open a clean course construction workspace.
○​ Manage Users: Quick routing directly to the user data list.
○​ Manage Notifications: Path to send global announcements.
○​ View Analytics: Quick navigation link straight to performance data
reporting.

4. Metabase Dashboard Container
●​ Central Visual Placeholder: Features an explicit placeholder visualization
containing a green circle logo icon "D".
●​ Label: Labeled Metabase Dashboard/Charts indicating embedded reporting and
business intelligence visualization tools load here.
5. Informational Sticky Note (Yellow Box)
●​ UI Location: Top right workspace corner outside the primary mockup viewport
frame.
●​ Instructional Content Text: Reads "The profile menu option (Eg: Ankur) on the
sidebar is view only".

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Navigating via the Platform Sidebar

●​ Locate the left-aligned panel menu area.
●​ Click any option (e.g., User Management) to redirect out of the main landing
panel.
●​ View your current logged-in identity label at the bottom ("Ankur"). Note that this
element is non-clickable and serves as a view-only identifier.
2. Launching Quick Action Workflows
●​ Find the Quick Actions row underneath the main greeting message banner.
●​ Select an operational shortcut link card depending on your immediate goal (e.g.,
click Create Course).
●​ Use these cards as direct shortcuts instead of digging through the sidebar
menus.
3. Reviewing Analytics Data
●​ View real-time platform metrics charts inside the central Metabase
Dashboard/Charts section.
●​ To expand or deep-dive into full custom reporting tables, click the dark blue
Metabase Analytics sidebar option.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Dashboard Layout Validation and Interactions

gherkin
Scenario: Verify non-interactive view-only behavior of the profile label
Given the user "Ankur" is looking at the Admin Panel dashboard layout
When the user attempts to hover or click on the profile option "Ankur" at the bottom sidebar
Then the mouse pointer should not change to an interactive hand pointer status
And no action or profile management overlay context menu should appear
Scenario: Route using the Quick Action Create Course card shortcut
Given the user is on the main Admin Panel welcoming greeting layout view
When the user clicks on the "Create Course" card inside the Quick Actions section
Then the platform should intercept the command and navigate directly to the Course Builder page

UI and Functionality Breakdown
Header & Toggle Context
●​ Page Navigation Tabs: Located at the top of the workspace. The Users (10) tab
is actively selected, switching the data grid focus from cohorts to individual
platform profiles.
●​ Add User Button: The top-right primary button text changes dynamically based
on the current administrator's organizational role.
○​ Example: Displays "+ Add User" for standard admins, but changes to "+
Add CFL Incharge" if the logged-in supervisor is a CFL Incharge.

Dynamic Selection & Bulk Operations
●​ Mass Target Action Links: Shows the current manual selection metrics ("2 items
selected") alongside quick links for Select all (233) and Deselect all.
●​ Group Actions Section: Displays dynamic bulk action links based on row
selections:
○​ Add to Existing Cohort: Mass-assigns checked individual profiles into an
established cohort container.
○​ Create new Cohort: Groups selected items together to initialize a
brand-new cohort path.
○​ Bulk Edit: Modifies common field values (e.g., regional districts or system
roles) simultaneously across all selected profiles.

Yellow Note Requirements (Functional & UI Constraints)
●​ Multi-User Actions: When multiple user records are selected, bulk actions change
to feature Archive (soft delete) and Unarchive operations.
●​ Role View Consistency: Interface structures remain identical across views for
CFL Incharge, SDI, DI, and Admin roles.
●​ Button Customization Rules: The primary registration button's text updates to
reflect the user's specific role definition.
Data Table Grid Columns
●​ Inline Actions Menu: The Select Action dropdown menu for individual rows
features isolated options: Edit User, Add to Cohort, and a red Archive User link.
●​ Data Fields: Standard fields map the user's identity, including First Name, Last
Name, Date Joined, Role, Contact Number, Email, and a green Active status
indicator.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Managing Dynamic Registration via the Custom Button

●​ Navigate to the top-right corner of the active Users management pane.
●​ Read the button label text to verify your administrative scope (e.g., "+ Add User"
or "+ Add CFL Incharge").
●​ Click the button to launch the specific profile creation form.
2. Executing Group Operations for Multiple Users
●​ Select specific target user checkboxes from the data table, or click Select all
(233).
●​ Navigate to the right side of the interface above the table header to find the
Group Actions section.
●​ Click Add to Existing Cohort to merge them into a group, or select Bulk Edit to
update common user values simultaneously.
3. Individual Soft-Deleting via Inline Menus
●​ Find the specific user row you want to remove (e.g., "Priya Kadam").
●​ Click the Select Action dropdown menu in the rightmost column for that row.
●​ Click the red Archive User link to soft-delete the profile, which updates its status
without removing it from the database entirely.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Dynamic Role-Based Button Rendering

gherkin
Scenario: Render standard user registration button for Admin accounts
Given an administrator accounts supervisor is logged into the management system
When the user navigates onto the master "User Management" dashboard page view
Then the top-right primary call-to-action button text should read "+ Add User"
Scenario: Render customized role registration button for CFL Incharge accounts
Given a user with the organizational role of "CFL Incharge" is logged into the system
When the user navigates onto the master "User Management" dashboard page view
Then the top-right primary call-to-action button text must change to "+ Add CFL Incharge"
Use code with caution.

Feature: Multi-Selection Contextual Action Bars

gherkin
Scenario: Toggle bulk soft-delete actions upon selecting multiple user rows
Given the user is looking at the populated individual Users list data table grid
When the user checks the selection checkboxes for multiple user rows simultaneously
Then the "Group Actions" context panel links should update dynamically
And the panel must display "Archive (soft delete)" and "Unarchive" options to the user
Scenario: Bulk route multiple profile records into a new cohort container
Given the user selects the "Select all (233)" action link on the user management page
When the user clicks the "Create new Cohort" link under the Group Actions header area
Then the system should forward the user to the Cohort Creation wizard page
And the wizard must pre-populate the staging container with all 233 se

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Page Flow Connections

●​ Red Mapping Lines: Connect trigger actions from the User Management list table
on the left to two separate drawer overlays.

●​ Add User Trigger: The main page action elements map directly into the clean
Add User form layout.
●​ Edit User Trigger: Clicking the inline row action "Edit User" pulls out the
pre-populated Edit User panel workspace.
2. "Add User" Drawer Overlays (Center)

●​ Header Elements: Form title label reading Add User with a right-aligned close
cross layout anchor (
●​ ).
●​ Required Input Parameters: Form fields marked with an asterisk (
●​ ) indicate mandatory entry constraints:
○​ First Name / Last Name: Blank data capture fields with placeholder hints
("Enter First Name").
○​ Email: Identity field containing placeholder mask layout validation rules
("Enter email").
○​ Mobile Number: Captures contact information with a length restriction
mask label ("Enter Mobile Number (eg. +91XXXXXXXXXX)").
○​ Gender: Text dropdown menu field layer ("Select gender").
○​ Geographic Cascade Matrix: Independent dropdown lists to isolate
locations step-by-step: State, District, Block, and Village.
○​ System Role Designation: Mandatory dropdown choice to define access
permissions (e.g., Admin, CFL Incharge).
●​ Primary Button Action: A dark blue Create User validation button situated at the
bottom right corner.
3. "Edit User" Drawer Overlays (Right)

●​ Pre-Populated Profiles: Holds the identical form structure as the creation screen,
but maps and loads existing server metrics into each corresponding field layer
(e.g., First Name: "Priya", Email: "priya.kadam@swadhaar.org").
●​ Destructive Control Layer: Adds a red layout button at the bottom left reading
Archive User. This lets administrators perform quick profile deactivations without
exiting the update panel.
●​ Update Confirmation Action: A dark blue Update User validation button to commit
modifications.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Launching and Submitting a New Profile Creation Form

●​ Click the primary registration call-to-action button on the main dashboard screen
to slide out the Add User drawer.
●​ Fill in all mandatory identity text inputs, including First Name, Last Name, Email,
and Mobile Number.
●​ Use the regional cascading menus to select locations step-by-step: select your
State first to automatically update the available options in the District, Block, and
Village dropdowns.
●​ Assign system capabilities using the Role dropdown menu selector box.
●​ Click the dark blue Create User validation button to save the new profile to the
system.
2. Updating Profile Information or Deactivating Users

●​ Click the Select Action dropdown next to a user row in the table, then choose
Edit User to open the side panel.
●​ Overwrite any outdated information directly in the editable text fields.

●​ Click the blue Update User button at the bottom right to apply and save your
changes.
●​ To soft-delete or remove the active profile, click the red outline Archive User
button at the bottom left of the panel instead.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Geographic Dropdown Cascading Logic

gherkin
Scenario: Validate dropdown population sequencing during user creation
Given the admin has open the "Add User" creation panel workspace drawer
And the District dropdown selection list is currently locked or disabled
When the user selects a valid entry option from the "State" dropdown menu list
Then the system should fetch the matching geographic profile records
And the "District" dropdown menu must unlock to display the filtered region choices

Use code with caution.

Feature: Data Validation and Field Enforcement

gherkin
Scenario: Prevent user registration when required parameters are missing
Given the admin has open the "Add User" creation panel workspace drawer
And the admin leaves the mandatory "Mobile Number" input field completely blank
When the user clicks the dark blue "Create User" validation button
Then the form submission process must intercept and halt immediately
And a red validation error indicator "Mobile Number is required" should display under the field

Use code with caution.

Feature: Profile Updates and Soft-Deactivations

gherkin
Scenario: Update existing user data through the Edit User panel
Given the admin opens the "Edit User" drawer panel for "Priya Kadam"
When the user updates the "First Name" text field value to "Priyanka"
And the user clicks the blue "Update User" confirmation button
Then the drawer panel should close automatically
And the main data table row must immediately update to display the name "Priyanka"
Scenario: Soft-delete a user profile directly from the editing panel
Given the admin opens the "Edit User" drawer panel for an active profile
When the user clicks the red outline "Archive User" destructive action button
Then the system should trigger a background profile status update request
And the drawer should close, showing the profile status as "Archived" on the dashboard

Use code with caution.

If you would like to proceed, let me know if you need help designing regex validation
strings for the mobile phone input field or writing integration test scripts to verify the
geographic cascading logic.
designing regex validation strings for the mobile phone input field or writing integration
test scripts to verify the geographic cascading logic.

1. Regex Validation Patterns for Mobile Number Input
To strictly enforce the placeholder mask (+91XXXXXXXXXX) seen in the UI, use the
following validation patterns:
Standard Indian Format Regex (+91 Prefix Required)

●​ Pattern: /^\+91[6-9]\d{9}$/
●​ Explanation:

○​ ^\+91: Must start exactly with the country code +91.
○​ [6-9]: The first digit of the mobile number must be 6, 7, 8, or 9 (valid
Indian mobile series).
○​ \d{9}$: Must end with exactly 9 digits after the initial series digit. Total
length is exactly 13 characters.

Flexible UI Formatting Regex (Optional Spaces/Hyphens)

●​ Pattern: /^\+91[\s-]?[6-9]\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3}$/
●​ Explanation: Allows common pasting variants like +91 98765 43210 or
+91-98765-43210 while enforcing structural validity.

2. Integration Test Script (Playwright TypeScript)
This integration test verifies the backend integration and UI behavior of the cascading
geographic matrix (State

District

Block
Village).

typescript
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';
test.describe('User Creation - Geographic Cascading Integration Matrix', () => {
test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
// Intercept API calls to supply controlled mock data for the cascade layers

await page.route('**/api/geo/states', async route => {
await route.fulfill({ json: [{ id: 'ST-01', name: 'Maharashtra' }] });
});
await page.route('**/api/geo/districts?stateId=ST-01', async route => {
await route.fulfill({ json: [{ id: 'DT-05', name: 'Pune' }] });
});
await page.route('**/api/geo/blocks?districtId=DT-05', async route => {
await route.fulfill({ json: [{ id: 'BK-12', name: 'Haveli' }] });
});
await page.route('**/api/geo/villages?blockId=BK-12', async route => {
await route.fulfill({ json: [{ id: 'VL-88', name: 'Wagholi' }] });
});
// Open the Add User drawer form layout
await page.goto('/user-management');
await page.locator('button:has-text("Add User")').click();
});
test('Should unlock and chain geographical choices sequentially down the matrix', async ({ page })
=> {
// 1. Target Selectors
const stateDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="state-select"]');
const districtDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="district-select"]');
const blockDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="block-select"]');
const villageDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="village-select"]');
// 2. Initial State Verification (Downstream lists must be disabled)
await expect(districtDropdown).toBeDisabled();
await expect(blockDropdown).toBeDisabled();
await expect(villageDropdown).toBeDisabled();
// 3. Step 1: Select State
await stateDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Maharashtra"]').click();
// Verify District unlocks after the State API returns data
await expect(districtDropdown).toBeEnabled();
await expect(blockDropdown).toBeDisabled();
// 4. Step 2: Select District
await districtDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Pune"]').click();

// Verify Block unlocks after the District API returns data
await expect(blockDropdown).toBeEnabled();
await expect(villageDropdown).toBeDisabled();
// 5. Step 3: Select Block
await blockDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Haveli"]').click();
// Verify Village unlocks after the Block API returns data
await expect(villageDropdown).toBeEnabled();
// 6. Step 4: Select Village
await villageDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Wagholi"]').click();
// Final form verification step
await expect(page.locator('button:has-text("Create User")')).toBeEnabled();
});
test('Should clear downstream selection choices if a top root state is reset', async ({ page }) => {
const stateDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="state-select"]');
const districtDropdown = page.locator('div[data-testid="district-select"]');
// Select state and district first
await stateDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Maharashtra"]').click();
await districtDropdown.click();
await page.locator('role=option[name="Pune"]').click();
// Clear or reset the root State dropdown element
await stateDropdown.locator('.clear-icon').click();
// Downstream values should instantly lock back up and drop values to prevent invalid data sets
await expect(districtDropdown).toBeDisabled();
await expect(districtDropdown).toHaveText('Select District');
});
});

​
​

​
​

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. "Bulk Edit Users" Drawer Panel (Left)
●​ Header Elements: Form title label reading Bulk Edit Users with a right-aligned
close cross utility button (
●​ ).
●​ Mandatory Field Elements: Every configuration parameter dropdown is marked
with an asterisk (
●​ ) to enforce input execution:
○​ State / District / Block / Village: Tiered location assignment dropdown
fields to update geographic regional routing parameters simultaneously.
○​ Role: Security role assignment dropdown (e.g., updating multiple profiles
to "Trainer" at once).
●​ Destructive Control Action Button: A red outline action item at the bottom left
reads Archive Users (2). This allows administrators to soft-delete the exact count
of currently checked profiles instantly.
●​ Confirmation Control: A dark blue button labeled Bulk Update Users executes the
batch data modifications.
2. "Add Users to Cohort" Floating Modal Card (Right)
●​ Header Elements: Context modal titled Add Users to Cohort featuring an
independent dismissal close anchor cross (

●​ ).
●​ Cohort Selection: A mandatory dropdown field labeled Select Cohort * containing
a text lookup feature ("Search Cohorts (eg: CFL Torpa)").
●​ Execution Call-to-Action: A dark blue submit button labeled Add Users to Cohort
to save and commit changes.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Performing Multi-User Location or Role Updates
●​ Select multiple user checkboxes from the master table, then click the Bulk Edit
action link to slide open the side panel.
●​ Choose new geographical routes sequentially from the State, District, Block, and
Village dropdown lists to update their assignments in bulk.
●​ To modify access permissions for all selected profiles at once, select a tier from
the Role dropdown.
●​ Click the blue Bulk Update Users button at the bottom right to apply the changes
to all selected rows simultaneously.
2. Archive Multiple Profiles Simultaneously
●​ Open the Bulk Edit Users panel with your target accounts selected.
●​ Locate the red outline button at the bottom left, which displays the exact selection
count (e.g., Archive Users (2)).
●​ Click the button to soft-delete all targeted users at once.
3. Mass-Assigning Users to an Established Cohort Group
●​ Click the Add to Existing Cohort group action link from the main table view to
display the centered floating modal card.
●​ Click inside the Select Cohort input field.
●​ Type a search query to find your target group (e.g., "CFL Torpa"), then select it
from the filtered dropdown list.
●​ Click the dark blue Add Users to Cohort button to finalize the assignment.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Bulk Parameter Modification Drawer

gherkin
Scenario: Successfully apply regional location parameters to multiple records at once
Given the admin has selected 2 user profiles and open the "Bulk Edit Users" panel
When the user updates the "State" dropdown selection to a new region
And the user selects values for the cascading "District", "Block", and "Village" fields
And the user clicks the dark blue "Bulk Update Users" confirmation button
Then the system should run a batch background update process
And the main user management table must display the updated location parameters for both
profiles
Scenario: Execute mass soft-deletion using the bulk archive control button
Given the admin has open the bulk editing panel with exactly 2 user records staged
And the destructive button label reads "Archive Users (2)"
When the user clicks the red "Archive Users (2)" button
Then the application should soft-delete both target profiles simultaneously
And the drawer should close, updating both user statuses to "Archived" on the dashboard
Use code with caution.

Feature: Cohort Group Assignment Modal

gherkin
Scenario: Search and assign selected profiles to a cohort group
Given the admin has initiated the "Add Users to Cohort" modal overlay card
When the user types "CFL Torpa" into the "Select Cohort" lookup field
And the user selects the matching cohort item from the auto-suggest list
And the user clicks the dark blue "Add Users to Cohort" validation button
Then the system should assign all selected user profiles to that cohort group
And the modal should close automatically, displaying a success confirmation toast
Use code with caution.

Integration Test Script: Geographic Cascading Logic (Cypress
JavaScript)
This script automates verification of the dropdown dependency chain (State
District
Block

Village) within the bulk editing panel.

javascript
describe('Bulk Edit Panel - Geographic Dropdown Chaining Verification', () => {
beforeEach(() => {
// Intercept API routes to supply stable mock geographic data structures
cy.intercept('GET', '**/api/geo/states', { fixture: 'states.json' }).as('getStates');
cy.intercept('GET', '**/api/geo/districts?*', { body: [{ id: 'D1', name: 'Pune' }] }).as('getDistricts');
cy.intercept('GET', '**/api/geo/blocks?*', { body: [{ id: 'B1', name: 'Haveli' }] }).as('getBlocks');
cy.intercept('GET', '**/api/geo/villages?*', { body: [{ id: 'V1', name: 'Wagholi' }] }).as('getVillages');
// Load user list page and trigger bulk edit panel drawer
cy.visit('/user-management');
cy.get('input[type="checkbox"]').slice(0, 2).check();
cy.contains('Bulk Edit').click();
});
it('should sequentially enable downstream fields as selections are made', () => {
// Check initial state: dependent location fields must be locked/disabled
cy.get('[data-testid="district-dropdown"]').should('have.attr', 'disabled');
cy.get('[data-testid="block-dropdown"]').should('have.attr', 'disabled');
cy.get('[data-testid="village-dropdown"]').should('have.attr', 'disabled');
// Step 1: Select State
cy.get('[data-testid="state-dropdown"]').click();
cy.contains('Maharashtra').click();
cy.wait('@getDistricts');
// Verify District is now unlocked, while further downstream fields remain locked
cy.get('[data-testid="district-dropdown"]').should('not.have.attr', 'disabled');
cy.get('[data-testid="block-dropdown"]').should('have.attr', 'disabled');
// Step 2: Select District
cy.get('[data-testid="district-dropdown"]').click();
cy.contains('Pune').click();
cy.wait('@getBlocks');
// Verify Block is now unlocked, while Village remains locked
cy.get('[data-testid="block-dropdown"]').should('not.have.attr', 'disabled');
cy.get('[data-testid="village-dropdown"]').should('have.attr', 'disabled');
// Step 3: Select Block
cy.get('[data-testid="block-dropdown"]').click();
cy.contains('Haveli').click();
cy.wait('@getVillages');

// Verify Village field is unlocked
cy.get('[data-testid="village-dropdown"]').should('not.have.attr', 'disabled');
// Step 4: Select Village
cy.get('[data-testid="village-dropdown"]').click();
cy.contains('Wagholi').click();
// Verify form submission button becomes active after completing the chain
cy.get('button').contains('Bulk Update Users').should('not.be.disabled');
});
});

​
​

Page Title and Context
●​ Title: Create and Manage Cohort.

●​ Sub-text: Manage cohorts and cohort users.
●​ Breadcrumb: User Cohorts > CFL Torps.
●​ Red Arrow: Indicates the back navigation action.

Cohort Details Section
●​ Cohort Name: Text input box currently showing "CFL Torps".
●​ Save Cohort Name: Button to apply and save changes made to the title.
●​ Archive Cohort: Button to deactivate or hide the cohort from active views.
●​ Cohort Users: Label with a blue measurement badge reading "88 Hug × 13 Hug"
indicating UI spacing constraints.

Filters and Controls
●​ Search Trainers: Input field to filter users by text lookup.
●​ Role Dropdown: Select menu to filter users by administrative permissions (e.g.,
Admin).
●​ Status Dropdown: Filter to view active or inactive users.
●​ State & District Dropdowns: Regional location filters to narrow down the user list.

Bulk and Individual Actions
●​ Bulk Selection: "Select all (233)" and "Deselect all" links manage mass row
actions.
●​ Group Actions: Global controls to "Add to Cohort" or "Remove from Cohort" for
selected rows.
●​ Actions Dropdown: Per-row menu offering individual options like "Add to Cohort"
and "Remove from Cohort".

Data Table Columns
●​ Checkbox: Toggles selection for individual user rows.
●​ First Name / Last Name: Identifies the user (e.g., Priya Kadam).
●​ Date Joined: Format showing registration dates (e.g., 01-01-2026).

●​ Role: Shows the user's specific access level (e.g., Admin).
●​ Contact Number / Email: Direct contact information for the cohort member.
●​ Status: Visual indicator badge showing user state (e.g., Green "Active").

Pagination Footer
●​ Total Items: Displays the total count of items in the current view (Total Items: 6).
●​ Rows Per Page: Dropdown configured to show 10 entries simultaneously.
●​ Page Navigation: Numeric links (1, 2, 3... 10) to switch between data pages.

​
​

Option 1: Step-by-Step User Guide
1. How to Modify and Save a Cohort Name
●​ Click inside the Cohort Name text field.
●​ Delete the existing text and enter your new name.
●​ Click the blue Save Cohort Name button to apply the change.
2. How to Filter the User List
●​ Use the Search Trainers box to look up a specific user by name.
●​ Click the Role, Status, State, or District dropdowns to isolate specific user
segments.
●​ Check or uncheck the options within those dropdowns to update the data table
grid automatically.
3. How to Execute Single-User Actions
●​ Locate the target user row in the table grid.
●​ Navigate to the rightmost column labeled Actions.
●​ Click the Select Action dropdown menu for that specific row.
●​ Select either Add to Cohort or Remove from Cohort to update that individual.
4. How to Execute Bulk-User Actions

●​ Check the individual boxes next to multiple users, or click Select all (233).
●​ Look to the top-right of the table for the Group Actions section.
●​ Click the green Add to Cohort link or the red Remove from Cohort link to update
all selected entries at once.
5. How to Archive a Cohort
●​ Ensure all current management tasks are completed.
●​ Click the red outline Archive Cohort button in the top right corner.
●​ Confirm the action if a secondary pop-up warning appears.

Option 2: Functional Test Case Suite
Test Case

Feature /

ID

Element

Test Objective

Expected Result

TC-001

Back Arrow

Verify back

Clicking the back arrow returns the user to

Link

navigation

the previous directory page.

functionality.
TC-002

Cohort Name

Verify text

Field accepts alphanumeric characters

Input

modification

and special symbols up to character limits.

constraints.
TC-003

TC-004

Save Cohort

Verify database

Clicking "Save Cohort Name" locks in

Button

updating.

changes and triggers a success message.

Archive Button

Verify cohort state

Clicking "Archive Cohort" flags the cohort

modification.

as inactive and removes it from main
views.

TC-005

Search Field

Verify real-time list

Typing a name (e.g., "Priya") immediately

filtering.

isolates matching rows in the table.

TC-006

TC-007

TC-008

Multi-Select

Verify filter layering

Selecting "Admin" + "Active" combines

Dropdowns

logic.

filters to show only active administrators.

Select All

Verify mass row

Clicking "Select all" highlights every

Controls

selection behavior.

checkbox across all table pages.

Group Actions

Verify multi-row state

Triggering a group action successfully

Links

updates.

updates all selected user rows
simultaneously.

TC-009

TC-010

Individual

Verify row-isolated

Triggering a menu action applies the state

Action Menu

behavior.

change strictly to that single row.

Pagination

Verify table

Clicking page "2" or changing rows per

Controls

navigation and limits.

page alters visible table data correctly.

convert this suite into detailed Gherkin syntax (Given/When/Then) or generate mock
automation code templates for these tests.

Detailed Gherkin Feature Files
Feature: Cohort Identity Management

gherkin
Scenario: Successfully modify and save a cohort name
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
And the cohort name field currently displays "CFL Torps"
When the user updates the cohort name field to "Updated CFL Cohort"
And the user clicks the "Save Cohort Name" button
Then the system should save the new name "Updated CFL Cohort"
And a confirmation message "Cohort name updated successfully" should appear
Scenario: Archive an existing cohort
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
When the user clicks the "Archive Cohort" button
And the user confirms the structural archive warning dialog
Then the cohort status should update to "Archived"
And the user should be redirected back to the "User Cohorts" directory
Use code with caution.

Feature: Table Filtering and Search

gherkin
Scenario: Filter the user table by name search
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
And the user table displays 6 total items
When the user enters "Priya" into the "Search Trainers" input field
Then the table rows should instantly update
And all visible rows should contain "Priya" in the First Name column
Scenario: Apply compound filters using Role and Status dropdowns
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
When the user clicks the "Role" dropdown filter
And the user checks the "Admin" option checkbox
And the user clicks the "Status" dropdown filter
And the user checks the "Active" option checkbox
Then the table should reload data matching both criteria
And every visible row must display "Admin" under Role and "Active" under Status
Use code with caution.

Feature: Individual and Bulk Action Processing

gherkin
Scenario: Execute single user removal from cohort via inline actions
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
And the user locates the row for "Priya Kadam" with Email "priya.kadam@swadhaar.org"
When the user clicks the "Select Action" dropdown in that specific row
And the user selects the "Remove from Cohort" option
Then the row for "priya.kadam@swadhaar.org" should be removed from the grid
And the total items counter should decrement from 6 to 5
Scenario: Execute bulk addition to cohort using select all
Given the user is on the "Create and Manage Cohort" page
And the table header displays "2 items selected"
When the user clicks the "Select all (233)" action link
Then all 233 user checkboxes across all pagination pages should be selected
When the user clicks the "Add to Cohort" link under Group Actions
Then a processing overlay should display the bulk update progress
And a success notification should confirm 233 users were processed
Use code with caution.

Playwright TypeScript Automation Templates
typescript

import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test';
test.describe('Cohort Management Suite', () => {
test.beforeEach(async ({ page }) => {
// Navigate to the target cohort page path
await page.goto('/cohorts/manage/cfl-torps');
});
test('TC-003: Should save updated cohort name', async ({ page }) => {
const nameInput = page.locator('input[placeholder*="Cohort Name"]');
const saveButton = page.locator('button:has-text("Save Cohort Name")');
await nameInput.fill('Updated CFL Cohort');
await saveButton.click();
// Validate value persistence or success toast presence
await expect(nameInput).toHaveValue('Updated CFL Cohort');
});
test('TC-005: Should filter data table via search input', async ({ page }) => {
const searchInput = page.locator('input[placeholder*="Search Trainers"]');
const tableRows = page.locator('table tbody tr');
await searchInput.fill('Priya');
await page.waitForResponse(response => response.url().includes('/api/trainers') &&
response.status() === 200);
// Validate that visible items match criteria
const count = await tableRows.count();
for (let i = 0; i < count; i++) {
await expect(tableRows.nth(i)).toContainText('Priya');
}
});
test('TC-008: Should perform bulk action on selected users', async ({ page }) => {
const selectAllLink = page.locator('text=Select all (233)');
const groupAddAction = page.locator('text=Add to Cohort').first();
const batchToast = page.locator('.toast-success');
await selectAllLink.click();
await groupAddAction.click();
await expect(batchToast).toBeVisible();
await expect(batchToast).toContainText('233 users processed successfully');
});

test('TC-009: Should trigger contextual row action menu items', async ({ page }) => {
// Target the first inline record row's interactive select container
const firstRowActionMenu = page.locator('table tbody tr').first().locator('text=Select Action');
const removeOption = page.locator('text=Remove from Cohort');
await firstRowActionMenu.click();
await removeOption.click();
// Verify row removal confirmation or counter decrement
await expect(page.locator('text=Total Items: 5')).toBeVisible();
});
});

​
​
​
​
​
When users

Added, UI Elements

●​ User Badges Container: A large, multi-row container block is now visible directly
under the Cohort Users section title.
●​ Individual User Badges: 14 removable rectangular chips displaying the name
Priya Kadam are rendered in the container.
●​ Removal Icons: Each individual user badge contains a red circular close/cross
icon (
●​ ) on its right side.

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Selected Cohort Users Section (New)
●​ UI: A grid of horizontal pills representing currently staged or added cohort
members.
●​ Functionality: Provides immediate visual confirmation of users currently assigned
to this specific cohort. Clicking the red cross icon removes that specific user from
the selection container instantly.

2. Group Action Dynamic Linking
●​ UI: "Add to Cohort" (blue link text) and "Remove from Cohort" (red link text) sit
under Group Actions.
●​ Functionality: Clicking these links processes any checked table rows
downstream. When "Add to Cohort" is executed, selected table entities are
pushed up into the Cohort Users badge container.

Step-by-Step User Guide (Updated Workflow)
1. Adding Multiple Users to a Cohort Container
●​ Check individual checkboxes next to rows in the main data table, or click the
Select all (233) link.
●​ Locate the Group Actions section on the right side above the table header.
●​ Click the blue Add to Cohort action text link.
●​ Verify that new user pills containing the member names appear inside the upper
Cohort Users grid.
2. Removing Selected Users directly from the Badge Section
●​ Scan the Cohort Users badge container at the top of the interface.
●​ Locate the user badge you want to delete (e.g., a specific Priya Kadam pill).
●​ Click the red circular cross icon (
●​ ) located on the right edge of that specific user badge.
●​ The badge will disappear immediately, updating the staging view before saving.

Functional Test Case Suite (Newly Added Features)
Test Case

Feature /

ID

Element

Test Objective

Expected Result

TC-011

TC-012

User Badge

Verify correct container

Executing "Add to Cohort" successfully

Display

rendering upon user

populates user capsules in the upper

addition.

section.

Verify inline removal via

Clicking the cross icon instantly deletes

Individual
Badge Delete

the red cross button (

that specific pill from the upper grid.

).
TC-013

TC-014

Badge

Verify table list state

Removing a badge does not

Counter Sync

doesn't break upon chip

automatically delete or modify the user's

deletion.

base record in the main table.

Duplication

Verify identical users

Attempting to add an already displayed

Prevention

cannot be added

user block fails or skips to prevent

multiple times.

duplication.

​
​
​
Scenario: Successfully populate user badges upon bulk addition
Given the user has selected 14 rows from the data table
When the user clicks the "Add to Cohort" link under Group Actions
Then a multi-row container should display under "Cohort Users"
And exactly 14 individual "Priya Kadam" user badges should be visible
And each badge must display a red circular cross icon on its right edge
Scenario: Remove a staged user directly from the badge container
Given the "Cohort Users" container displays multiple user badges
When the user clicks the red cross icon on a specific "Priya Kadam" badge
Then that specific user badge should immediately disappear from the container
And all other user badges in the container must remain unchanged
Scenario: Validate state persistence after badge removal
Given the user removes a "Priya Kadam" badge from the upper container
Then the corresponding user record in the main data table below must not be deleted
And the user's status in the data table row should still display "Active"
Scenario: Prevent duplicate user badge addition

Given the user badge for "Priya Kadam (priya.kadam@swadhaar.org)" is already present in
the upper container
And the user checks the checkbox for "Priya Kadam" in the main data table
When the user clicks the "Add to Cohort" link under Group Actions
Then the system should not append a duplicate badge for that user
And a warning notification "User is already added to the cohort" should be displayed

​
​
UI and functionality of cohort t6ab from user management page​
​

UI and Functionality Breakdown
Header & Top Navigation
●​ Page Title & Subtext: Displays User Management with the subtitle "Manage your
users and user cohorts".

●​ Tabs Indicator: Two toggle buttons switch views between Users (10) and Cohorts
(2). The "Cohorts" tab is currently active, displaying the cohort management
table.
●​ Global Action Button: A dark blue + Create Cohort button in the top right redirects
the user to the blank cohort creation screen.
Table Filters & Selection
●​ Search Cohorts: Text input box to filter down the table entries by cohort title.
●​ Status Dropdown: Menu to isolate rows based on checked statuses (Active or
Inactive).
●​ Mass Selection Links: Displays current manual row selections ("2 items
selected") alongside quick links for Select all (12) and Deselect all.
●​ Group Actions: Global dynamic link text Enrol to Course applies a course
assignment rule across all checked rows simultaneously.
Data Grid Columns
●​ Selection Checkbox: Toggles inclusion for targeted bulk operations.
●​ Cohort Name: Title string representing the specific grouping (e.g., "CFL Torpa").
●​ Users: Numerical metric indicating total populated members assigned inside that
cohort (e.g., "20").
●​ Date Created: Timestamp marker for audit tracks formatted as DD-MM-YYYY
(e.g., "01-01-2026").
●​ Created By: Administrative author identity string (e.g., "Priya Kadam").
●​ Status: Dynamic lifecycle badge (e.g., green Active marker).
●​ Actions Dropdown: Row-isolated operation matrix containing three options:
Manage Cohort, Enrol to Course, and red text Archive Cohort.
Footer Pagination
●​ Total Items: Overall database query metric count matching active filter rules
("Total Items: 6").

●​ Rows Per Page: Numerical limit configuration dropdown currently set to look at
"10" rows maximum.
●​ Page Index Matrix: Navigational pagination index sequence (1, 2, 3... 10) to
browse split sets.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. How to Initiate a New Cohort
●​ Locate the top right section of the main dashboard interface.
●​ Click the dark blue + Create Cohort button.
●​ Complete the configuration form on the subsequent page layout.
2. How to Manage a Single Cohort Record Inline
●​ Identify your target cohort row from the list (e.g., "CFL Torpa").
●​ Hover to the rightmost column and click the Select Action dropdown toggle.
●​ Click Manage Cohort to update names and handle badge users, or click the red
Archive Cohort to terminate visibility.
3. How to Bulk Enrol Cohorts into a Course
●​ Select specific cohort records using individual left checkboxes, or click Select all
(12).
●​ Locate the Group Actions text string header above the right data grid layout.
●​ Click the blue Enrol to Course text link to open the mass assignment screen.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Cohort List Navigation and Filtering

gherkin
Scenario: Toggle viewing perspective from cohorts to users list
Given the user is viewing the "User Management" master page
And the "Cohorts" tab indicator is currently highlighted active
When the user clicks on the "Users 10" tab element
Then the active layout should switch views to reveal the Users list data grid

Scenario: Filter cohort data grid via name search string
Given the user is on the Cohorts tab within the User Management dashboard
When the user types "Torpa" inside the "Search Cohorts" filter field
Then the system should isolate the data rows instantaneously
And every visible row item must display "CFL Torpa" in the Cohort Name column
Use code with caution.

Feature: Cohort Group Actions and Record Modifications

gherkin
Scenario: Trigger bulk enrolment for multiple checked cohorts
Given the data grid header displays the status string "2 items selected"
When the user clicks the "Enrol to Course" link under the Group Actions area
Then the system should load the Course Enrollment wizard configuration screen
And the wizard must target the selected cohort groups automatically
Scenario: Execute inline cohort management workflow
Given the user opens the "Select Action" dropdown on the first "CFL Torpa" row
When the user selects the "Manage Cohort" options choice link
Then the app must redirect the browser to the "Create and Manage Cohort" layout page

​
​

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Main Table Interface (Role Management)

●​ Header Section: Labeled Role Management with the subtext "Manage user
roles". A dark blue primary action button + Add Role sits on the right side.
●​ Search Bar: Text input field containing a search icon used to dynamically filter
role names in the list.
●​ Selection & Bulk Controls Bar: Displays selection metrics and multi-record
operation commands:
○​ Selection Count Indicator: Displays current selections (e.g., "2 items
selected").
○​ Mass Selection Links: Features quick options to Select all (10) or Deselect
all.
○​ Group Actions: Offers batch toggle modifications via Enable all and
Disable all text links.
●​ Data Grid Columns:
○​ Checkbox: Toggles individual row selection.
○​ Title: Names of access groups (e.g., Admin, District Incharge, Trainer).
○​ Reporting to: Structural hierarchy paths showing who supervises whom.
○​ Created On / Last Modified: Tracking timestamps formatted as
DD-MM-YYYY.
○​ Status Toggle: A modern graphical slide switch showing an active state
(green switch) or an inactive state.
○​ Actions Menu: Per-row Select Action dropdown menus. For selected
entries, this expands to display options like Edit Role, Disable Role, and a
red destructive Archive Role link.

2. Yellow Note (Functional Logic & Constraints)
●​ Multi-Role Conditional Flow: The yellow note specifies that when multiple rows
are checked, group action logic updates to support collective modifications like
modify status and Archive (soft delete).
3. "Add/Edit Role" Modal Dialog Frame (Right Overlay)

●​ Header: Dynamic context title Add/Edit Role equipped with a standard
cancellation close cross anchor (
●​ ).
●​ Input Controls:
○​ Role Title *: Mandatory text field with a placeholder prompt ("Enter Role
Name").
○​ Choose Role Permissions *: Multi-select dropdown field indicated by a
blue "D" marker. Features hint chips showing assigned security
parameters (e.g., Read Users, Edit Users).
○​ Reporting to *: Mandatory hierarchy assignment dropdown field.
Predefined parent associations appear in gray (e.g., Superadmin, Admin).
○​ Rule Status *: Radio toggle option switching system states explicitly
between Disabled and Enabled.
●​ Footer Actions: Contains a clear-form Clear link button and a dark blue
confirmation Save Role button.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Initializing and Form-Configuring a New Security Role
●​ Navigate onto the main dashboard pane and click the dark blue + Add Role
button to bring up the side window modal.
●​ Click inside the Role Title field and type a descriptive identifier.
●​ Click the Choose Role Permissions multi-select dropdown and check the security
capabilities this role should have (e.g., Read Users).
●​ Use the Reporting to menu to choose who this new role will report to in the
organizational hierarchy.
●​ Set the Rule Status switch to Enabled, then click the blue Save Role button to
create it.
2. Performing Multi-Row Status Updates and Archiving

●​ Check the boxes next to individual roles in the data table, or click Select all (10)
to select all rows at once.
●​ To update statuses across all selected records instantly, navigate to the Group
Actions section and click Enable all or Disable all.
●​ To soft-delete all selected roles at once, follow the path indicated by the yellow
note: use the multi-role action tool to click Archive (soft delete).

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Dynamic Form Submission and Field Validation

gherkin
Scenario: Successfully validate mandatory field markers during role configuration
Given the admin user has launched the "Add/Edit Role" overlay frame container
And the admin leaves the mandatory field "Role Title" completely blank
When the user clicks the dark blue "Save Role" form submission button
Then the action must halt immediately to prevent invalid data transmission
And an inline validation warning alert message must display next to the missing field
Scenario: Clear workspace inputs using the inline clear control option
Given the admin has entered data across fields in the "Add/Edit Role" form layout
When the user clicks the "Clear" text link button located in the footer area
Then every custom entry field inside the panel must reset to its blank default state
Use code with caution.

Feature: Data Grid List Filtering and Bulk State Control

gherkin
Scenario: Search and filter the roles table by title keyword
Given the admin is viewing the main "Role Management" dashboard data list
When the user enters the search string "Incharge" inside the filtered search bar field
Then the table rows should immediately filter to display matching records
And only rows containing "District Incharge" or "Sub District Incharge" must remain visible
Scenario: Execute mass status adjustments via Group Action triggers
Given the admin selects multiple role entries, displaying the indicator "2 items selected"
When the user clicks the "Disable all" link under the Group Actions area
Then the system must process a background batch update command
And the graphical status sliders for all selected rows must switch to the disabled state
Use code with caution.

Feature: Contextual Deletion and Archiving Logic

gherkin
Scenario: Archive multiple roles simultaneously using multi-select workflow
Given the admin checks multiple role rows to trigger the conditional multi-role logic
When the user executes the "Archive (soft delete)" operation from the group controls
Then the system must soft-delete all targeted role records simultaneously
And the archived records must be hidden from the active management view without being
permanently deleted from the database

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Content Library Main Dashboard (Left Workspace)
●​ Header Section: Displays Content Library with the subtitle "Manage your
uploaded content". A dark blue primary button + Upload Content is positioned at
the top right.
●​ Search and Filters:
○​ Search Input: Text bar to filter files by name.
○​ Status Filter: Dropdown list to isolate files by state (Active or Inactive).
○​ Type Filter: Dropdown menu to filter content by format profile (Video,
Image, Assessment, etc.).

●​ Mass Selection Options: Displays selection states (e.g., "2 items selected") with
links to Select all (150) and Deselect all.
●​ Group Actions Sub-menu: Contains batch status change operations: Move to
Drafts, Move to Review, and Duplicate.
●​ Data Columns: Features standard sorting properties: Title, Type, Date Created,
Created By, Status (green badge), and a Actions dropdown selector.
2. Left Yellow Note Constraints (Bulk Actions & Filters)
●​ Dynamic Operations: Selecting multiple content rows triggers group actions: Bulk
Duplicate and Archive (Soft Delete).
●​ Enhanced Filtering: Filter logic updates to support multi-select for Creator profiles
and expanded status options (Published, In Review, and Drafts).
3. "Upload Content" Overlay Modal Drawer (Right Workspace)
●​ Header Frame: Form modal titled Upload Content with a standard close icon (
●​ ).
●​ Content Type Selector *: A mandatory dropdown field to classify the incoming
asset.
●​ Drag & Drop File Upload Area: A dotted bounding target dropzone area
containing an upload line icon and a blue Browse hyperlink trigger.
●​ File Constraint Information Text:
○​ Supported formats: mp3, wav, pdf, mp4, webm, epub, youtube, h5p, and
html zip files.
○​ Maximum size constraint: 150 MB.
○​ Render guidelines: Note specifying that PDF and HTML files may take up
to a minute to generate system preview updates.
●​ Workspace Action Buttons: Features a light grey Clear Filter function and a dark
blue Upload submission button.
4. Right Yellow Note Constraints (System Integration & Asset Creation)

●​ LMS Platform Sync: Clicking to add an Assessment, Video, or Image triggers
integration scripts that open the internal Sunbird LMS system interface to attach
the selected asset.
●​ New Asset Mapping: Images uploaded through this panel must be appended as
a new custom content category within the active ecosystem.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Managing Material Upload Configurations
●​ Click the dark blue + Upload Content button on the main dashboard to open the
file upload modal.
●​ Expand the Content Type dropdown and choose your asset category. If you
choose Assessment, Video, or Image, the system will sync with the Sunbird LMS
framework to attach the asset.
●​ Drag your file into the dotted dropzone or click Browse to find it manually (ensure
the file is under 150 MB and uses an approved extension like .mp4 or .pdf).
●​ Click the dark blue Upload button to save the new item to your Content Library.
2. Executing Multi-Item Batch Management
●​ Check the checkboxes next to the items you want to modify, or click Select all
(150) to select everything.
●​ To update their workflow states at once, navigate to the Group Actions section
and click Move to Drafts or Move to Review.
●​ To clone or soft-delete all selected rows simultaneously, use the multi-select tools
to click Duplicate or Archive.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Dynamic File Upload Validation and LMS System Sync

gherkin
Scenario: Prevent file upload when asset dimensions exceed the maximum size constraint
Given the administrator has opened the "Upload Content" modal container

And the user selects a file that exceeds the maximum size limit of 150 MB
When the user drops the file onto the drag-and-drop target upload area
Then the system must intercept the upload request and halt data transmission
And a red validation error message "File size cannot exceed 150 MB" must display
Scenario: Route asset creation requests to Sunbird LMS during setup
Given the administrator is configuring an asset inside the upload form
When the user selects "Assessment" from the "Content Type" dropdown selector field
Then the platform must initialize integration sync protocols with Sunbird LMS
And the Sunbird asset attachment interface must render within the active workspace
Use code with caution.

Feature: Data Grid List Filtering and Batch Management

gherkin
Scenario: Filter the content library table using multiple criteria at once
Given the admin is viewing the master "Content Library" dashboard list view
When the user checks multiple creator names in the "Creator" filter dropdown
And the user selects "Published" from the status criteria options
Then the table rows must immediately refresh to show only matching records
And all visible rows must match the selected creator and status criteria
Scenario: Execute mass status updates using bulk action controls
Given the administrator has checked multiple content rows in the table
And the selection indicator displays the text string "2 items selected"
When the user clicks the "Move to Review" link in the Group Actions bar
Then the system must process a background batch update command
And the status badges for all selected rows must switch to "In Review"
Use code with caution.

Feature: Contextual Duplication and Soft-Deletion Operations

gherkin
Scenario: Bulk duplicate multiple selected library assets simultaneously
Given the admin selects multiple content items to trigger the bulk action rules
When the user clicks the dynamic "Duplicate" option from the group actions bar
Then the system must copy the selected asset records in the database
And the table list must refresh to show the new duplicate rows marked as "Copy"

​
​

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Course Management Main Grid (Left Workspace)
●​ Header Section: Labeled Course Management with a dark blue primary action
button + Create Course in the upper right corner.
●​ Filters: Includes dropdown menus to filter courses by Status and other contextual
criteria.
●​ Table Grid Columns: Displays course details including Title, Type, Created On,
Created By, Status (green badge), and an Actions dropdown menu.
●​ Inline Action Menu: Expanding the row dropdown shows contextual options:
Manage Course, Enrol Trainer Group, and a red destructive Archive Course link.
2. Left Yellow Note (Bulk Actions & Filters)
●​ Dynamic Operations: Selecting multiple checkboxes updates group controls to
feature Bulk Duplicate and Archive (Soft Delete).
●​ Enhanced Filtering: Filter menus update to support multi-select options for
Creator and expand status parameters (Published, In Review, Drafts).
3. "Enrol Trainer Group to Course" Modal (Center Overlay)
●​ Trigger Mechanism: Opened by selecting a row's inline action menu or via the
group action links.
●​ Input Fields: Includes a mandatory Select Course * lookup dropdown and a
Trainer Group * multi-select dropdown.

●​ Form Submission: A dark blue Enrol Product confirmation button commits the
assignment rules.
4. Center Yellow Note (Enrolment Routing Constraints)
●​ Workspace Synchronization: When the Enrol Trainer Group to Course button is
clicked inside the course builder interface, the modal defaults its course selection
state to focus on the active course workspace.
5. Sunbird LMS Content Workspace (Right Workspace)
●​ Form Header: Displays the active content workspace titled Book with global
control buttons Preview, Save as Draft, and Submit for Review.
●​ Interactive Panel Components: Includes a nested navigation outline menu tree
(e.g., Book
●​ Item 1), data collection input boxes for Name * and Description, an rich-text
editor for Instructions, and options like Shuffle Questions.
●​ Bottom Control Bar: Contains operational action links to Add Peer Reviewer and
Close Workspace.
6. Right Yellow Note (LMS Creation Pipeline)
●​ Platform Redirection: Clicking + Create Course bypasses native forms and
redirects the browser to the embedded Sunbird LMS interface. This initializes a
new course asset workspace under unified administrative focus.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Initializing New Course Materials via Sunbird LMS
●​ Navigate to the Course Management dashboard.
●​ Click the dark blue + Create Course button in the top right.
●​ The system will redirect you to the Sunbird LMS workspace layout.
●​ Enter your course parameters in the Name and Description fields, and use the
rich-text tool to configure user Instructions.

●​ Click Save as Draft to capture updates, or click Submit for Review to advance the
course through publishing approval steps.
2. Mass-Assigning Trainer Teams to Active Courses
●​ Locate your target course in the main table list.
●​ Click its Select Action dropdown in the rightmost column, then select Enrol
Trainer Group.
●​ In the pop-up modal, verify or select your target course, then expand the Trainer
Group field to check the boxes next to your target teams.
●​ Click Enrol Product to apply the assignment rules to those groups.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Role-Based LMS Integration Workspace Routing

gherkin
Scenario: Redirect course creation requests to the Sunbird LMS platform interface
Given the administrator is looking at the master "Course Management" grid view
When the user clicks the dark blue "+ Create Course" primary action button
Then the platform should redirect the active browser view to the Sunbird LMS panel
And a clean workspace layout should open with the editing focus locked on the course asset field
Use code with caution.

Feature: Dynamic Mass Selection and Group Status Transitions

gherkin
Scenario: Toggle contextual soft-delete options when selecting multiple items
Given the admin is viewing the populated course management data table list
When the user checks multiple course checkboxes to select more than one row
Then the "Group Actions" context panel links must update dynamically
And the selection bar must display "Bulk Duplicate" and "Archive (Soft Delete)" options
Use code with caution.

Feature: Contextual Workspace Enrolment Pre-population

gherkin
Scenario: Auto-select active course context inside the enrolment modal
Given the user is working inside the course builder panel workspace
When the user clicks the "Enrol Trainer Group to Course" action link
Then the configuration modal overlay should open automatically

And the "Select Course" dropdown must be pre-populated with the active course context

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Notification Management Dashboard (Active Notifications Tab - Left View)
●​ Header & View Layout: Features the page title Notification Management with the
subtitle "Manage your notifications". It uses a tab bar containing Active
Notifications (currently selected) and Notification Templates. A primary dark blue
button + Send Notification resides on the right side.
●​ Filters: Includes dropdown menus to filter notifications by Status and other
system properties.
●​ Selection & Bulk Controls Bar: Displays selection indicators ("2 items selected")
alongside quick links for Select all (12) and Deselect all.
●​ Group Actions Sub-menu: Offers mass status alteration links: Move to Drafts and
Disable.
●​ Data Grid Columns: Displays standard notification metrics: Notification ID,
Notification Type, Template, Sent On, Status (green "Active" badge), and an
Actions dropdown menu.
●​ Inline Actions Menu: Expanding an individual row dropdown presents options like
Edit Notification, Disable Notification, and a red destructive Archive Notification
link.
2. Left Yellow Note Constraints (Bulk Operations & Soft-Deletion)

●​ Dynamic Actions: Selecting multiple checkboxes updates group controls to
feature collective status updates and Archive (Soft Delete) operations.
3. "Send/Edit Notification" Modal Drawer (Center Overlay)
●​ Header: Dynamic dialog window labeled Send/Edit Notification featuring a corner
dismissal close icon (
●​ ).
●​ Target Group Fields *: Contains mandatory dropdown selections including Target
Users * and Template * (to select predefined formatting layouts).
●​ Trigger Definition Field *: A mandatory Notification Trigger Time * field configured
via radio selection toggles between Send Now or Schedule (which unlocks data
inputs for date and time parameters).
●​ Message Details: Displays a read-only Message text canvas preview area that
automatically reflects the template text populated by the selection dropdown.
●​ Footer Actions: Contains a clear-form Clear link button and a dark blue Send
Notification confirmation button.
4. Notification Templates Dashboard (Right View)
●​ Header & View Switch: Accessed by clicking the second tab option labeled
Notification Templates. The primary button shifts its text label to + Create
Template.
●​ Data Grid Columns: Displays template management columns: Template ID,
Template Title, Notification Body, System Prototype, Status (green "Active"
badge), and an Actions dropdown menu.
●​ Inline Actions Menu: Individual row options map to actions like Edit Template,
Disable Template, and a red Archive Template link.
5. "Create/Edit Notification Template" Modal Drawer (Far Right Overlay)
●​ Header: Dialog panel titled Create/Edit Notification Template with a corner close
anchor (

●​ ).
●​ Input Controls *: Features fields with validation asterisks: Template Title *,
Notification Title *, and a multi-line text input box labeled Notification Body *.
●​ Footer Actions: Includes a Clear option and a dark blue Save Template
confirmation button.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Authoring and Deploying a Notification Transmission
●​ Navigate onto the Notification Management dashboard page and verify that the
Active Notifications tab is highlighted.
●​ Click the dark blue + Send Notification button to open the configuration slide-out
drawer.
●​ Select your intended audience slice using the Target Users dropdown field list.
●​ Choose a template structure from the Template dropdown menu; this will
automatically fill the read-only Message field preview container below.
●​ Set the Notification Trigger Time radio button option: select Send Now for
immediate delivery, or select Schedule to enter your required date and time
parameters.
●​ Click the dark blue Send Notification button to finalize delivery processing.
2. Building Preformatted Notification Templates
●​ Click the Notification Templates view tab located at the top left area of the
dashboard.
●​ Click the dark blue primary button labeled + Create Template to open the creation
overlay panel.
●​ Enter configuration data into the mandatory Template Title, Notification Title, and
Notification Body text input boxes.
●​ Click the blue Save Template button to commit your changes and make the
design selectable in the delivery drawer.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Dynamic Broadcast Targeting and Form Field Validation

gherkin
Scenario: Successfully restrict broadcast delivery submissions when mandatory parameters are
missing
Given the administrator has opened the "Send/Edit Notification" overlay drawer window
And the user selects a audience tier from the "Target Users" dropdown field
And the admin leaves the mandatory "Template" selection option completely blank
When the user clicks the dark blue "Send Notification" confirmation button
Then the system must intercept the command to prevent invalid transmission
And an inline validation alert message "Template selection is required" must display
Scenario: Unveil calendar configuration inputs when scheduling broadcasts for later delivery
Given the admin user is working inside the "Send/Edit Notification" configuration drawer
And the "Notification Trigger Time" configuration is set to its default option "Send Now"
When the user changes the radio selection option to "Schedule"
Then the platform layout should expand dynamically to display date and time fields
And those specific scheduled time fields must match input validation constraints
Use code with caution.

Feature: Template Modification and Preview Synchronization

gherkin
Scenario: Auto-populate the read-only message canvas based on template selection changes
Given the admin has launched the notification delivery configuration drawer panel
When the user selects the "Welcome Announcement" profile from the "Template" dropdown menu
Then the system must update the text area canvas container labeled "Message"
And the preview text must display the exact string mapped to the "Welcome Announcement"
record
Use code with caution.

Feature: Contextual Bulk Selection Actions and Status Toggling

gherkin
Scenario: Mass archive multiple notifications simultaneously
Given the user checks multiple notification checkboxes, displaying the indicator "2 items selected"
When the user clicks the dynamic "Archive (Soft Delete)" link from the Group Actions bar
Then the system must run a background batch update command to soft-delete the records
And the archived notification items must be removed from the active grid view immediately

​
​

​
​

UI and Functionality Breakdown
1. Page Header Section
●​ Title: Labeled Metabase Analytics on the master workspace layer.
●​ Sub-text: "Track crucial metrics and performance indicators" defines the page
purpose.
●​ Sidebar Integration: The analytics line chart icon in the left navigation sidebar is
actively highlighted in dark blue, showing the user is inside this module.
2. Embedded Metabase BI Portal Workspace (iframe Container)
●​ Embedded Portal Banner: Features a light blue top menu bar with a central
search tool box ("Search") and platform utilities on the right (+ Ask a question,
Browse data, Settings, and Activity history icons).

●​ Greeting & Welcome Banner: Displays a customized greeting header text string:
"Hey there, Pankaj".
●​ Staged Analytics Banner: Contains an information chip reading "Your team's
most important dashboards go here. Pin dashboards or collections to save them
space for everyone."
●​ Automatic Table Discovery Row: Features four quick-link shortcut cards to
instantly generate ad-hoc analytical explorations from internal database tables:
○​ People table shortcut card.
○​ Orders table shortcut card.
○​ Products table shortcut card.
○​ Reviews table shortcut card.
●​ Our Analytics Container: A central placeholder zone with a grey illustration layer
reading "Save dashboards, questions, and collections to 'Our analytics'" with a
blue Browse all items routing link button.
●​ Database Schema Indicator: A bottom panel strip displays a database icon
marked with a sub-label tracking linked storage warehouses.
3. Yellow Note Constraints (System Architecture & Embedded Flow)
●​ iframe Integration Requirement: The yellow note specifies that this view embeds
a complete Metabase Analytics iframe instance directly inside the admin panel
layout framework.
●​ Content Generation Rule: All performance charts, data graphs, and customized
business intelligence reporting dashboards are created directly on the native
Metabase engine portal, which then streams and renders them within this
embedded interface container.

Step-by-Step User Guide
1. Accessing Platform Analytics via the Admin Dashboard
●​ Locate the left-hand navigation sidebar panel on the administrator portal screen.

●​ Click on the analytics line chart icon (positioned second from the bottom) to load
the reporting suite.
●​ Verify that the header reads Metabase Analytics and that your custom iframe
dashboard workspace synchronizes and displays completely.
2. Generating Quick Metrics Reports from Table Shortcuts
●​ Scroll down to the Try these views based on your data shortcut section inside the
embedded frame.
●​ Choose a database schema target card based on your reporting goals (e.g., click
on Check out your People table).
●​ Review the automatically generated metrics summary charts and data trends
calculated from that database table.
3. Browsing Saved Core Team Dashboards
●​ Look at the center area of the portal layout labeled Our Analytics.
●​ Click the blue Browse all items hyperlink text button.
●​ Select from your team's saved collections, customized data questions, or pinned
performance metric boards to open full report sheets.

Functional Test Case Suite & Gherkin Scenarios
Feature: Secure Embedded iframe Asset Rendering

gherkin
Scenario: Successfully render the embedded Metabase dashboard iframe asset
Given the admin supervisor "Pankaj" is logged into the master management dashboard
When the user clicks on the "Metabase Analytics" icon option in the left navigation sidebar
Then the platform layout frame must render the main analytics workspace structure
And the system must successfully initialize and display the secure embedded Metabase iframe
portal instance
And the greeting message string inside the frame container must display "Hey there, Pankaj"
Scenario: Gracefully handle communication timeouts from the embedded analytics portal
Given the admin user navigates onto the master "Metabase Analytics" reporting tab view
When the background authentication handshake or connection to the Metabase server times out
Then the system must intercept the connection error cleanly within the active container frame

And an inline notification message "Unable to securely load analytics data. Please reload." must
display
Use code with caution.

Feature: Data Exploration Redirection and Shortcuts

gherkin
Scenario: Launch automated data metric explorations using table shortcut cards
Given the embedded Metabase portal canvas has finished loading its UI elements
When the user clicks on the "Check out your People table" quick exploration card shortcut
Then the Metabase engine must process an automatic data discovery query in the background
And the iframe view must update to display a generated data summary page for that table
Use code with caution.

Feature: Global Metabase Navigation Routing

gherkin
Scenario: Browse all saved team metric collections from the central portal hub
Given the admin is looking at the core data placeholder block inside the analytics panel
When the user clicks the blue "Browse all items" link button under the Our Analytics section
Then the embedded portal page view must update to show the main collection directory
And all shared dashboards and pinned data questions must be accessible to the user

